Task 1: Write a Short Report (Max 500 Words)
In your foods-api API, describe the role of the following elements

app.use(express.json())
This middleware enables the Express app to automatically parse incoming request bodies with JSON
 payloads. It ensures that the server can handle and process JSON-formatted data, which is crucial
 for REST APIs that use JSON as the standard data exchange format.

req.body
This contains the data sent by the client in the body of a request, typically used in POST and PUT 
requests to create or update a resource.



req.query
This captures query parameters in the URL, usually used for filtering or sorting results (e.g., 
/foods?calories=low).

req.params.id
This retrieves the dynamic :id value from the URL path. It is commonly used to identify a specific 
resource for GET, PUT, or DELETE operations.

Describe the significance of using different HTTP methods 
(e.g., GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) in your API. How do they relate to CRUD operations?
GET POST PUT DELETE are four different HTTP method , each of them has different function
and different machanism， GET do role of C, it is send get resource request to the server 
then server respond to browser or client with json format

GET (get)
Used to read or retrieve data from the server. For example, GET /foods fetches all food items.

Post (create)
represent role of C(create), it create new resource request to the server, each request with different
request id

Put  (update)
represent role of U(update) it change, modify , or update resource request to existing resource to the server
multiple requests using same request id

Delete (delete)
 represent role of D(delete), it send delete resource request to the server, delete the existing 
resource in the server

all of them are basic but essential to build functionality of api, they enable communication
between server and client side, delete unwanted resource, update latest data, create new data
for example, if a client want to get data from server which store the client's information, without get
methods enable client to get resource from server。





Explain the meaning of these HTTP status codes:

200 OK
200ok means request executed successfully, there is response of resource for the request


201 Created
successfully create new resource in the server

400 Bad Request
there is error or mistake of code of request sent to the server which can't processed or understood 
by server， code of request may lack of some character or code is in wrong format

404 Not Found
request to the server searching for the resource does not found on the server 
500 Internal Server Error
there is error occur in the internal server, like server application get crash, logic of code of sever 
error, database disconnect.


Task 2: Capture Screenshots of Postman Tests
POST /foods - Create a new food.

GET /foods - Retrieve all foods.

PUT /foods/:id - Update an existing food.

DELETE /foods/:id - Delete a food by its ID.


